1E 0 — 1E 2920

The First Era, sometimes referred to as the First Age,[10][11] can be characterised by the rise and 
expansion of numerous human empires, and the decline of Elven authority across Tamriel. In the early 
years, the Nords of Skyrim established one of the first great empires under King Vrage, who initiated 
multiple military expansions that pushed past the borders of Skyrim and into High Rock and Morrowind.

Around the same time, the human slaves of the Ayleids rose up under the leadership of the Slave-Queen 
Alessia and rebelled against their Elven overlords. Alongside the heroes Pelinal Whitestrake and Morihaus, 
Alessia would continue to liberate slaves and fight Daedric armies, culminating in the Ayleid's defeat at 
the White-Gold Tower and the establishment of the Alessian Empire.[12] While the Ayleid empire fell, the 
Direnni elves saw a brief rise to power, becoming a formidable economic and military power in High Rock. 

The Direnni Hegemony also welcomed many fleeing Ayleids, who migrated to High Rock to escape persecution 
in an exodus known as the Ayleid Diaspora. While the Direnni Hegemony managed to conquer High Rock and even 
some parts of Skyrim and Hammerfell, a war with with the Alessian Empire weakened their power in High Rock. 
In the following years the Direnni could no longer challenge the emerging Breton nobility, who seized power 
throughout most of High Rock.

The First Era also saw conflict erupt between the once-allied Chimer and Dwemer of Morrowind. The war 
between the two Elven races concluded at the Battle of Red Mountain, where upon the entire Dwemer race 
mysteriously disappeared. These events paved the way for the formation of the Tribunal, which would last 
for centuries thereafter. After the continent of Yokuda sank into the ocean, the Yokudans survivors migrated 
to western Tamriel. The fearsome warrior wave drove the elves, beastfolk and Nedic peoples from Hammerfell, 
and claimed the deserts as their new homeland.

The early-to-middle part of the First Era became known as the "Classical Period".[13], and it was after this 
time a phenomenon known as a Dragon Break took place across much of Tamriel for one thousand and eight years. 
During this time, linear time was broken and became non-linear. When linear time resumed, one of the first 
recorded events was the destructive Thrassian Plague that devastated more than half of Tamriel's population. 
After it was discovered the plague was released by the Sload, an armada of ships known as the All Flags Navy 
was built and waged war upon the Sload, resulting in the destruction of their homeland.

Following years of internal strife within the Alessian Order's bloated priesthood and territorial movements 
to curtail or outlaw the Order's religion, the War of Righteousness broke out. Western Cyrodiil isolated itself 
from the Alessian Empire and establishes the Colovian Estates, and after a decade of conflict, the war concludes 
and the Alessian Order and Empire are dissolved. The Empire's former territories solidify their independence, and 
its heartland, Cyrodiil, splits into Eastern and Western halves that continue to diverge culturally over the 
following centuries.

Eventually, Cyrodiil was reunified when Reman I established the Second Empire after defeating an invading Akaviri army. 
The Reman Conquests saw Reman expand his empire to conquer almost all of Tamriel, save for Morrowind. His son, Emperor 
Reman II attempted to claim Morrowind during the Four-Score War, but died in battle. The war was continued by his 
successors Brazollus Dor and Reman III, however Reman III and his son and heir Prince Juilek were both assassinated 
by the Morag Tong in 1E 2920. Akaviri Potentate Versidue-Shaie assumed the Imperial Throne and ratified the Cervant 
Truce, which ended the disastrous Four Score War with Morrowind and ushered in the Second Era.
